---
layout: post
title:  "Oxidation 1 - Cargo, Rustdoc"
date:   2019-08-27 11:24:27 +0530
categories:
  - Programming
tags:
  - Rust
draft: false
---

**What is `rustup`, `rustc` & `rustdoc` ?**

`rustup`- Used to update the latest Rust version.
`rustc filename.rs` - Used to compile rust source code.
`rustdoc` - Rust documentation is generated from this command. This can generate documentation from markdown files. Also, it show the Rustbook opens in browser when called as `rustup docs`

**Project initialization**
After installing Rust, we should initialize a project using `Cargo`
`cargo init project_path`  -
This will create a project folder of below file structure.


**Project folder - File Structure**

To work in Rust, you should have a project folder. The folder structure is like below.
```
Project_name
  ├── src
  │     └──main.rs
  ├── target
  ├── Cargo.lock
  └── Cargo.toml
````

* **src - Source folder**: Source code lies under this folder
The rust files are of '.rs' extension. We can have as many rust files under the folder

* **target - Target folder**: The final executables lies in this folder.   The final executable will be created on using `cargo build --release` and will be ready for production.

* **Cargo.toml**: This is a manifest file that holds package & dependent package details.

Below is the sample `Cargo.toml` file created in my project.

``` toml
[package]
name = "Euler-Rust"
version = "0.1.0"
authors = ["dheepakg <email_id@gmail.com>"]
edition = "2018"

# See more keys and their definitions at https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html

[dependencies]


```


I'm using VS Code IDE. So, after doing the Cargo init, I open the project in VS Code. That's it. We would have `src/main.rs` will be ready for execution. We can learn further by modifying the file.
