---
title: "If you're approaching 20's or in early 20's"
date: 2020-08-03 11:47:27 +0530
categories:
    - Opinion
tags:
    - Advise
    - Lifestyle
    - Hostel
    - away-from-parents
draft: false
---
In this write up, the *hostel* is used to indicate not only limited to the boarding school but also staying away from parents.

**TL;DR** You must live in a hostel.

All through these years since your arrival, you've a safety net named *parents*. They cleaned your shitty bums, they fed you with the food that are handpicked for your well-being, they were there when you tumbled down, they taught you how to walk, eat, pee et al.
> The first eighteen years of your life are like a free trial, and after that it's pay to play. - [Reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Showerthoughts/comments/3co6cx/the_first_eighteen_years_of_your_life_are_like_a/)

As soon as you graduated from kid to teenager, you became a pain their butt. The hands that was once a *guide* became *control*. They know all the craps that you pulled since birth, but now you want *privacy*. They paid for all the things you own, they're the reason for what you are now, yet you feel you're *entitled* for much more.

#### Why to go to a hostel?
**To the children**
For 1<sup>st</sup> 18 years, you're living a carefree life. Talk to your parents and get enrolled in a hostel, to make sense of how the real world functions. You'll come across people from all sorts of society, different parts of economical stages, you can see the difference between controlled environment (home) and pseudo-controlled environment (hostel).
You'll make new friends, you will be exposed to new ideologies, you'll get your heart-breaks and learn how to live with rejections.

**To the parents**
Till now, you've provided the best you can offer to your kid. But he's no longer a kid, not anymore. He can and should make decisions that make or break his future steps. Legally, he can choose who should be ruling us (voting rights), with whom he can share his life with (marriage), how to make a living.
This is the time you should leave your kid to pedal along his life and you can see from a distance whether he is doing good; you can always rescue him if he fall down, but he should be aware that every decision he makes has a consequence. That is possible only when you allow him to take decisions.

#### How enrolling in hostel helps?
**To the children**
You are no longer staying with the parents, meaning you're not under the watchful eyes. The "control" you frowned upon is no longer there; meaning you won't get help from them as well. You've to form your own pack, make friends to be with; make some enemies to fight through the years, choose a person that you feel is meant for you.
But, how would you do that? Unknowing to you, the foundation for the decision-making were sown into you by your parents in *the trial period of your life*.
One thing is sure, whatever the decisions you make you face the consequences. You would get to feel the absence of safety net first time in your life.

**To the parents**
As a parent, you're supposed to teach the values; instill the notion that *all the actions has its consequences*. If not taught till now, you've wasted 18 years and lost an opportunity to bring a good human.
How to know whether you did your job right or not?  
>*Integrity* is doing the right thing even when *no one is watching* - [C.S. Lewis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C._S._Lewis)

By seeing how he performs when you not there. Talk to warden, talk to his friends and understand whether he is doing good or not.  
He's (almost) on his own, and he is exposed to alcohol, tobacco or even narcotics. By your teachings, he should be avoiding these, at the least he shouldn't have developed addiction to these. However, if he is addicted his education at the home is not *right*. You might get a small duration to do the course correction; but truth be told, only person you need to be angry with is yourself. After all, what you sow is what you reap.

#### What you get out of hostel?
**To the children**
Either, an ability to stand on your feet or becoming a food to the monsters in the society. The society is a place you're going to live in the rest of your life. The parents will be there to help you out; but soon its time for you to take care of them.

**To the parents**
Once you let him live his life, then by the time your "kid" reaches 25ish age, you can evaluate where he stands.
 - Is he able to maintain a good friend?
 - Is he able to live on his own?
 - Is he able to think long term and plan for his future?
 - Is he respects other culture, and accepts diverse culture around him?
These are the few metrics you can gauge your "kid" or in other words your own parenting ability.
Sooner you find a flaw, easier to rectify it.


PS: This is being written when I'm not a parent myself. But I assume I can evaluate a situation based on surroundings.

PPS: Feel free to argue with me. I'm not an expert by any means.
