---
title:  "A curious question on reading?"
date:   2020-06-07 11:07:00 +0530
categories:
  - Opinion
tags:
  - books
draft: false
---

My *SO* asked a curious question. I froze, like a Windows XP machine, couldn't answer then. After the incident, for several nights, the question ran through in my head to decipher the answer.


Let's start with little *about me* . I like to read books.  As of today, reading is one of the hobby for me. For her, reading is a boring chore, like majority around me.

The question was simple and on to the point.

> Why am I reading books? What did I got from it?


The question is 2 parts, **why** to read and **what** is the outcome of reading?

First, lets starts with **why** part.

1. Because I can read.
	Its effects are constructive.  It sets off my imagination and also It's completely legal thing to do.
2. Improves writing
	The need for writing is ubiquitous, especially in this information era. Reading helps writing, like listening helps talking.
3. Free Entertainment
	You don't need to pay for high-speed internet. Entire book won't exceed few megs.
4. Boat load of knowledge
	Take any topic under the sun (or beyond the sun), there will be range of books from fundamental to masters level. It's upto the individual to consume type of knowledge.


Now, second one, **what** is the outcome of reading?

This is a tricky question. Let's say you've read 5 books in 2018, will you be able to recall the contents of the book? Or at least the titles which you read? I've no idea about you, but if not paid attention to keep the contents I would more likely to forget what I read.

There is thread on how to take notes by [Alex and Books](https://twitter.com/AlexAndBooks_/status/1310431223039307776).

But we have one more problem, here. You take notes on each books, that acts a summary of the individual book. But if you're to search for something, isn't cumbersome to go through each of the books?   So, it's more helpful to consolidate notes in single place. So, I'm planning to post the notes and interesting items that I came across books in a blog post.

I'm starting with currently reading books. Converting notes from books read in the past would take more time. So they moved to backlogs, let it be till the suitable time comes.
